and it's so interesting that it's all
the trend today and when I was a kid and
my mom would take hummus and use that
instead of Mayo on our sandwiches and we
packed those in our brown bag for lunch
and the other kids would ask me what I
was eating because it smelled so great
I'd be real embarrassed and I'd say
Lebanese mayonnaise but you know what we
have really come full circle hummus is
probably one of the best things you can
eat and it's very expensive in the delis
or at the grocery I'm going to show you
how to make your own an old family
recipe that's delicious and really easy
you want to start off with the can of
chickpeas sometimes called chichi beans
garbanzo beans full of calcium any bean
is really good helps pull cholesterol
out of your body all I do is drain them
you don't need to rinse them now you can
do this by hand like my mom used to do
but I'm going to do it in a food
processor because I like it very smooth
but you can get smoother as chunky as
you want and to that you're going to add
a teaspoon of minced garlic oh that
smells so good
more or less remember this is to your
taste now garlic is good for your heart
so I made a little more than a teaspoon
and 1/4 a cup of lemon juice and you
know you can freeze lemons let me tell
you a great trick when you buy lemons in
the store and if they're ever on sale
take your lemon whole unpeeled like this
put it in the freezer
let freeze it hard uncovered when it's
frozen hard you've got a frozen lemon
the great thing is thawed out and it
will exude so much juice because the
cellular structure has broken down in
the freezer just like tomatoes and also
if you're going to zest that frozen
lemon zest it before of course you cut
it in half and while it's still fairly
frozen but that is a great way to have
vitamin C all year round now sometimes
when you buy a lemon too at the store
they're hard in the old fashioned way
- as you roll it roll it roll it on the
counter with the palm of your hand to
start breaking that cellular structure
down if it's still real hard sometimes
that doesn't work well what you can do
is poke a few holes in it like this take
it over to the microwave and microwave
it's just a few seconds not long and
what happens is the heat of that
microwave will again soften the outside
and the inside and you'll get lots and
lots of juice
so that's your lemon primer for today so
let's continue to make our hummus
you want to use about 1/4 a cup of lemon
juice again more or less to taste and
now the secret ingredient or really not
even a secret the key ingredient in
hummus is something called tahini now
tahini is nothing more than sesame seed
paste when you get it home and you open
it store it in the refrigerator and
it'll it'll keep for six seven months in
there and sesame seeds are full of
calcium really really delicious used a
lot in Mediterranean cooking so you want
to use any we're all about three
tablespoons or so and I will tell you
that when it's stored in the fridge what
happens is the oil of the sesame seeds
rises to the top so when you take it out
of the fridge stir it up
otherwise you're just going to get
sesame seed oil and now what we're going
to do we're going to add a couple
tablespoons of olive oil and you know
olive oil is really a healthy oil some
people don't even add the olive oil but
I like the flavor of it now for my two
secret ingredients a little bit of
yogurt about 1/4 of a cup use good
yogurt that gives it a little bit of a
tang to my palates really good and
comune we call it commune cumin seed
about a teaspoon half a teaspoon a
little bit more or less to taste oh I
wish you were here that smells so good
very warming herb again used a lot in
Mediterranean cooking and we're going to
give it a grind of salt or pepper and
pepper and with Justin here he probably
would love cayenne pepper you could do
that too I'm just going to show you how
quick it is
now you know what that is done what I'm
going to do now is I'm we're going to
pour it in a bowl season it with salt
and pepper and we're ready to eat it's
only took a couple not even two minutes
in the food processor and if you notice
mine is chunky but you can make it
smooth as you want just by continuing to
process it more and some people do this
in the blender as well now I say the
only downside to hummus is the color
because it's sort of brownish so what
we're going to do is we're going to
gussy it up a little bit with some fresh
parsley and sometimes let me do this too
at home what I'll do is right before I
serve it drizzle it again with some
extra-virgin or pure olive oil okay
there you go
really hummus in a flash
you